## 3.

**Discuss any five string handling library functions with example.**

Ans:

**1. strlen()**

The function strlen() receives a string as an argument and returns an integer which represents the length of the passed string. The length of the string is the number of characters present in it, excluding the null character.

Syntax: `integer_variable = strlen(string);`

**2. strcpy()**

The function strcpy() copies string from one variable to another. The function accepts two strings as parameters and copies the second string into the first string character by character including the null character.

Syntax: `strcpy(destination_string, source_string);`

**3. strcat()**

The function strcat() concatenates two strings; that is, it appends one string at the end of the anpther. THE FUNCTION ACCEPTS WO STRINGS as parameters and stores the contents of the second string at the end of the first string.

`Syntax: strcat(string1, string2);` i.e., it is equivalent to `string1 = string1 + string2;`

**4. strcmp()**

The function strcmp() compares two string to check whether they are same or different. The function accepts two strings as parameters and returns an integer whose value is:

i. Less than 0 (or -1 in some compiler) if the first string is less than the second.

ii. Equal to 0 if both strings are same.

iii. Greater than 0 (or 1 in some compiler) if the first string is greater than the second.

The two strings are compared character by character until there is a mismatch or end of one string is reached. When two characters in two strings differ, the string which has character with higher ASCII value is treated as greater string.

`Syntax: integer_variable = strcmp(string1, string2);`

**5. strrev()**

The function strrev() reverses all the characters in a string except the null character at the end of the string. The function takes one string as argument and returns its reverse.

Syntax: `strrev(string);`
