## 1.

**Why do we need data files? What are the different file opening modes? Write a program
that reads data from a file "input.txt" and writes to "output.txt" file.**

### _Part 1:_

The basic I/O operations like printf() and scanf() are console oriented functions, which always requires the use of keyboard for input and a computer screen for output. These functions read, writes and stores data to temporary storage of computer which gets wiped out as soon as the program is terminated, or the computer is turned off. These functions are worthwhile for very small-scale operation where data doesn’t need to be permanently stored. But it becomes cumbersome and time consuming to handle a large volume of data. Also, at some point these data needs to be accessed and modified, which can’t be done as they are temporary. These problems gave birth to concept of data files.

The data file allows us to store information permanently and to access and alter that information whenever necessary. Therefore, if we need to store the data for long term and in a format which allows us to access and alter those data, we need data files.

### _Part 2:_

The different file opening modes are as follows:

**i. “r” (read)**

This opens an existing file for reading purpose only. It looks for specified file. If the file exists, it loads it into a memory and sets up a pointer to the file. If the file isn’t found, it returns NULL.

**ii. “w” (write)**

This mode opens a file for writing purpose. It searches for the specified file. If the file exists, the content of the file is overwritten. If the file doesn’t exist, a new fie is created implicitly. If it fails to open the fie, it returns NULL.

**iii. “a” (append)**

This mode opens an existing file to appending purpose i.e., the new information is added after the existing information. It searches for the specified file. If the file exists, it loads it into a memory and sets up a pointer to the last character of file. If the file doesn’t exist, a new fie is created implicitly. If it fails to open the fie, it returns NULL.

**iv. “r+” (read + write)**

This opens an existing file for reading and writing purpose. It looks for specified file. If the file exists, it loads it into a memory and sets up a pointer to the file. If the file isn’t found, it returns NULL, i.e., the file must already exist. After reading the content of the file, new content can be written to the file. The new content will overwrite the previous content.

**v. “w+” (write + read)**

This opens a file for writing and reading purpose. It looks for specified file. If the file exists, it loads it into a memory and sets up a pointer to the file. The previous content is destroyed. If the file isn’t found, a new file is created implicitly. If the operation fails, it returns NULL. After writing the content to the file, new content can be read from the file.

**vi. “a+” (append + read)**

This opens an existing file for appending and reading purpose. It looks for specified file. If the file exists, it loads it into a memory and sets up a pointer to the last character of file. Then the new content can be added to the already existing content. If the file isn’t found, a new file is created implicitly. If the operation fails, it returns NULL. After appending the new content to the file, those can be read from the file.

### _Part 3:_

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main()
{
    FILE *fptrSource, *fptrDest;
    char ch;

    fptrSource = fopen("files\\input.txt", "r");
    fptrDest = fopen("files\\output.txt", "w");

    if (fptrSource == NULL){
        printf("\ninput.txt can not be opened.");
        exit(1);
    }
    printf("\ninput.txt opened successfully.");

    if (fptrDest == NULL){
        printf("\noutput.txt can not be created.");
        exit(1);
    }
    printf("\noutput.txt created successfully.");

    while((ch = fgetc(fptrSource))!= EOF){
        fputc(ch, fptrDest);
    }
    printf("\nSuccessfully copied from 'input.txt' to 'ouput.txt'.");

    fclose(fptrSource);
    fclose(fptrDest);

    return 0;
}

/*
input.txt opened successfully.
output.txt created successfully.
Successfully copied from 'input.txt' to 'ouput.txt'.
*/
```
